Alex Jensen and Susan McHale believe that parents are the reason why siblings in the same families are different from each other. To prove this, the authors make use of rhetorical devices such as anecdotes and statistics, their own theories regarding sibling differences, as well as their own research, which validates their theories. 
The authors start with a personal event where one of the authors had to deal with her two daughters bickering in their car, an event that happens very commonly between them. They then state that this is very common throughout many families. They provide the statistic that siblings are 50% genetically similar on average, yet are still so different from one another. They follow this up with a rhetorical question that sets their following arguments in place. In short, the authors use an extremely relatable scenario to hook the audience into their main argument.
Next, the authors establish their own theories regarding the concept of sibling differences. They first establish their credibility by revealing that they themselves research sibling and family relationships. This reveal comes into play later in the arguments, cluing the audience into how their theories are validated. The authors include the theory that siblings strive to be different from each other to establish separate identities and niches for themselves in their families. It is at this point, however, where the authors add to this theory, which includes the influence of parents on the sibling differences. 
Referring back to their experience as researchers on familial relationships, Jensen and McHale asked hundreds of couples which of their children did they think was more academically capable. Additionally, the authors looked through the corresponding children’s report cards to compare their predicted and actual grades. According to their results, while parents tended to favor the older sibling on average, even when the older sibling did not get better grades, parents who had younger sisters and older brothers correctly predicted that the younger sister had better grades. The authors later repeated the process and found out that not only were the parents’ responses mostly unchanged, but the sibling who was thought to have had better grades had seen big improvements over the past few years. The authors concluded that the parents believing that a particular sibling had better grades influenced those big improvements, which in turn strengthens the parents beliefs in that sibling, creating a positive feedback loop.
Jensen and McHale refer back to the anecdote from the first paragraph as well as their main claim to finish their argument. The authors mention a counterargument, but use their claim and insight to refute it. They write that parents try to show affection toward all of their children, but the authors claim that they should be aware that “small differences in how they treat their children can have large effects.” When the authors bring up the anecdote and once again using their new-found insight, they bring up the possibility that the mother’s perceptions of her children might be the root cause, and the reason for this possibility is easier to comprehend than one might think.